uname   :displays the os
uname -a:more detailed with prvt ip
cat /etc/redhot-release
arch    :to see the os version of os
top     :how many users are logged in and cpu spacen total usage all will displays.
top+1   :no.of cpu's we can see.
alias   :to see the alias commands.
which cmd name  :displays the path/description of the cmd
 (which id,which alias:usr/bin/alias)
ctrl+r  :we can see the previous command
ctrl+l  :to clear the screen
clear
cd -    :we can go to the previous directiory
cd ..   :we can get back to 2 directories from present directory.
cd ~    :we can go to the ec2-user
su - username :required password.
sudo su - :switching to the root user.
sudo su - ec2-user :switching to the ec2-user.
nslookup dnsname :the website name is in DNS or not
TRACEROUTE websitename(linux) :we can see where the packets dropped.
TRACERT.EXE websitename(windows)
ping websitename :it's keep on calling the website name.
                  in aws ping not enabled,if we want we can enable by ICMP packets.
nc -vz privateip port no :the port opened or not
telnet ipaddress port no 
whoami   :displays user name
who am i :parent loggedin user
who      :displays those who are logged in like ec2-user etc..
w        :displays current loggedin user
top(in this zombi should always zero)
last
ls -ltra :including all hidden files also
ls a*
ls z*   :to list the all files starting with specific letter      
        :including file permissions also
ls d*   :You want to get a directory listing of all the files beginning with the letter "d". You type
ls -ld  :It will give the list of directories, without descending into subdirectories.
vi filename :to create the file
esc+i/insert :to write in the file.
esc:set nu:giving the line numbers.
esc:wc -l:displays total words count in the file 
esc:1   :goes to the line 1
esc:wq! :with save and quit
esc:q!  :with out sva and quit
dd :delete the line
yy :copy the line
x  :delete the charecter
i  :insert
p  :paste
esc /keyword :to search the keyword where it is located n to go to the next word occurance press "n"
echo "content" >> filename
touch filename1,file name2,......
touch -f test [1-20]
rm filename :deletes the file wt permissions.
remove -f test1,test2,......:forcefully deletes the file.
chmod 644 filename :change the file permissions


